# Grief, Hope and Patience

There is one important thing that I discovered when I was quitting my 8 year
long marijuana addiction. I learned to allow myself to grieve. In order not to
succumb to temptations to find a way to get high, I had to allow myself to
grieve about the fact that my intention was to never get high again, no matter
how much I liked the state of being high.

An important component of Grief is Hope. When you grieve that you have to let
something go, you also hope for something else to come later to replace the
thing you are letting go, even though in the moment you might not necessarily be
able to imagine what that something else might be and what it would feel or look
like.

My plan back then was to give up the high for 2 or 3 years, but I was just
soothing myself this way - I actually knew that I'm giving it up for good. I
could not even fathom what was there to replace the state of euphoria that
marijuana was giving me (I know people generally don't get addicted to weed, but
I am in the minority that does).

What I did acquire, however, was Hope that the thing, that would replace the
high for me, exists, even though I cannot imagine it (I was gravely desperate
with my addiction and asked God for help - this step was exactly what helped me
discover these important mental tools in me). Fast forward 4 years and I now see
what was this thing that eventually replaced the high for me - it's the life
that I actually enjoy (I was miserable when I was addicted).

The third component that I started mastering is Patience. During these 4 years I
significantly improved my work life and I am highly motivated and passionate
about what I do. I still struggle, however, in personal/romantic life - I find
this to be the hardest part to fix. Patience came to me when I, again, asked God
for it, and now I'm working on honing it, mostly via meditations. I will not
expand on this much just yet - this part of my journey has only started for me.